{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red87\green87\blue87;\red227\green238\blue237;\red45\green45\blue45;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c41569\c41569\c41569;\cssrgb\c90980\c94510\c94510;\cssrgb\c23137\c23137\c23137;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa360\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Over the course of the year 2020 a total of 8,960 individuals were admitted to prison, which is a decrease of 2 percent in comparison with 2019.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl540\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf4 \strokec4 The number of inmates in prison service institutions (on 1 October) was approximately 5,450 in 2020, which constitutes an increase of 9 percent in comparison with 2019. The level is now 2 percent higher than it was in 2011.\
Of those admitted to prisons during the year 2020, 19 percent had been sentenced for theft offences. Around 12 percent had been sentenced for crimes against life and health, around 31 percent had been sentenced for drug offences and around 10 percent had been sentenced for road traffic offences. Assault offences dominated among the crimes against life and health and drinking under the influence dominated among the traffic offences.\
The majority of those admitted to prisons are men. In 2020, men accounted for approximately 93 percent of the total number of prison inmates. The proportion of inmates comprised of women has been relatively stable over the last ten years.\
Around 15 percent of those admitted to prison in 2020 were aged 50 or older. 46 percent were aged between 30 and 49, 33 percent were aged between 21 and 29. Youths aged between 15 and 20 accounted for 6 percent of admissions in 2020. Looking instead at those admitted to prison per 100,000 of population in the respective age groups, the distribution is different. On this basis, the dominant age group comprises persons aged 21 to 29 years, with 252 prison admissions per 100,000 of population, as compared with 79 admissions per 100,000 of population among those aged 15 to 20 years.\
Approximately 1,620 individuals served their prison sentence by means of intensive electronic supervision in 2020, which constitutes an increase of 1 percent in comparison with 2019.\
In 2019 approximately 11,300 persons entered the supervision of the probation service. This represents an increase of 14 percent by comparison with the figure for 2019. Approximately 5,980 persons (53 percent) were sentenced to probation and approximately 5,270 persons (47 percent) were conditionally discharged.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl540\partightenfactor0
\cf4 There were approximately 2,330 individuals placed in remand centres on 1 October 2020. Of these, 85 percent were under detention awaiting trial or during ongoing criminal investigations and 2 percent were under arrest or otherwise in police custody. The number of persons serving a prison sentence in remand centres was 310 persons on 1 October 2020.\
}